We can find running daemons by searching for processes which run without a controlling terminal attached to them.

List of Some Daemons are : -
1. systemd - It has process ID 1. It provides a standard process for controlling what programs run when a Linux system boots up

2. kthreadd - It has only one function, which is to manage the dispatch of other kernel threads. It is created when the kernel is initialized and loops through a function called Kthreadd, which is the function of running the Kthread maintained in the Kthread_create_list global list.

3. cupsd - It is scheduler for Common Unix Printing System. It implements a printing system based upon the Internet Printing Protocol, version 2.1, and supports most of the requirements for Internet Printing Protocol(IPP) Everywhere.

4. acpid - It provides intelligent power management on a system and allows to query battery and configuration status by supporting the Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI). 

5. watchdogd - is an advanced system and process supervisor daemon, primarily intended for embedded Linux and server systems. By default it periodically kicks the system watchdog timer (WDT) to prevent it from resetting the system.

6. snapd - the background service that manages and maintains your snaps on a Linux system. snap – both the application package format and the command-line interface tool used to install and remove snaps and do many other things in the snap ecosystem.

7. ksmd - It periodically scans those areas of user memory which have been registered with it, looking for pages of identical content which can be replaced by a single write-protected page.

8. thermald - onitors and controls temperature in laptops, tablets PC with the latest Intel sandy bridge and latest Intel CPU releases. Once the system temperature reaches a certain threshold, the Linux daemon activates various cooling methods to try to cool the system.

9. fwupd - fwupd is an open-source daemon for managing the installation of firmware updates on Linux-based systems. It is designed primarily for servicing the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) firmware on supported devices via EFI System Resource Table (ESRT) and UEFI Capsule, which is supported in Linux kernel 4.2 and later.

10. udisksd - The udisks daemon serves as an interface to system block devices, implemented via D-Bus. It handles operations such as querying, mounting, unmounting, formatting, or detaching storage devices such as hard disks or USB thumb drives.

11. rsyslogd - Rsyslogd is a system utility providing support for message logging. Support of both internet and unix domain sockets enables this utility to support both local and remote logging.
