Few countries have benefited more than India from the explosion in connectivity provided by modern smartphones. It is no exaggeration to say the smartphone revolution has single-handedly connected a billion people across the sub-continent to each other and the world, erasing one of India’s most problematic infrastructure hurdles.
Along with India’s remarkable adoption of smartphones has come dramatic increases in handset competition, dramatically increased data rates coupled with dramatically reduced data transmission cost, and dramatically improved features and functions. As the market has evolved, Indian consumers have enjoyed enormous benefits. Smartphone prices have plummeted.

Traditionally, the reasons that it has been easier to manufacture Mobiles in China compared to India are –
*Because of the useless policy of indian government. Administration plays a major role in the development of technology and industry. Mobile
 phone consists of a pcb with semiconductor chips and microprocessor
*China’s robust manufacturing industry has economies of scale and a full-fledged supply chain ecosystem, hence unit production cost per
 phone in China is the lowest in the world
*Components for mobile manufacturing are not available locally in India, hence imports adds to the overall cost of manufacturing
*The cost of power and water is higher in India compared to China. As per a KPMG analysis in 2011, power cost in China was 20% to 30% lower, water was 30% to 35% cheaper, Chinese labor was 1.8 times more productive than Indians and labor cost was lower
labor costs in China have risen by about 20%, thus eroding the advantage of manufacturing in China to some extent
*We can't manufacture in India at huge level or from scratch because of No Microprocessor unit, No Displays or panel manufacturers in India, No plastic industry of standard quality. We do have industrial complexes but phone manufacturing needs best quality fibres and plastic which we don't produce. We can't manufacture that because we were never interested in that. Cost reduction is a huge advantage for Chinese manufacturers.

Over the past two years, Indian smartphone vendors have lost about 35 percent of the market to Chinese companies. Just two years ago, Micromax, Karbonn Mobiles, Lava and other local players had more than 54 percent market share, according to data from marketing research firm Counterpoint. The outcry from the Indian smartphone vendors was, in a way, a public admission that they could not fight back against the Chinese brands - with increased marketing, cutting down the retail price of their phones, and embracing the online strategy, all falling short. 
    
    
    



A decade ago, when Apple was about to announce the first iPhone, mobile phone stores in India were still filled with feature phones, and smartphones as we know them today were still a few years away. While Steve Jobs was attempting to revolutionise the smartphone industry, a revolutionary idea of sorts was also being explored at the headquarters of the Indian mobile industry of the time. For years, these companies had served as distribution partners for Nokia, Motorola, Sony Ericsson, LG, and other companies. The executives wondered. That was a monumental moment in India's mobile phone industry, Kolla said, as Micromax, Spice, Lava, and Jaina Group (which would later be rebranded to Karbonn Mobiles) made their foray into the OEM space. Several Indian brands partnered with Chinese Original Design Manufacturers (ODMs) to explore what is known in the industry as the white-labelling deal. One company designs and manufactures the phone, another puts its name on it. These Chinese ODMs brought two areas of expertise to the table: first, they could manufacture feature phones at record low prices, giving Indian vendors a major weapon to fight back offerings from Nokia, Motorola, and several other international giants that had in-house manufacturing capabilities.
Second, Micromax and other Indian vendors were able to bring new models to the market in a much shorter period of time. While Nokia and other companies typically took more than a year in conceptualising, manufacturing, and then bringing the phones to the market, Kolla told Gadgets 360 that the Chinese ODMs were able to complete that process and hand over the inventories to Indian smartphone vendors in three months, and sometimes less than that.
And thus began the trend of "dumping" low-cost feature phone models in India, and quickly gaining some market share in the country. Micromax and others began to spend big money on marketing, targeting two things Indians love the most: cricket and Bollywood.
However, it didn't take long before shareholders and consumers started to complain. All these feature phone models looked alike. Investors kept suggesting to companies that they need to make major investments in research and development, one way to differentiate from the competition.
The problem however, was much deeper, a top level executive who has worked with one of these companies told Gadgets 360. Micromax and other local Indian companies didn't have the right set of people to lead the companies. They were traders, he said, adding that nobody had the experience with - or much expertise in - products.
The problem was that none of their [Micromax's] founders were product people. They had expertise in marketing and distribution. By late 2010 and early 2011, the market had started to demand smartphones. And that changed everything. First, it put most Indian companies on a level playing field with the international giants of the time, as all of them were trying to figure out how to crack the smartphone game. But at the same time, the call from investors to Micromax and other Indian companies to make investments in research and development continued to come in.
Getting into the smartphone space, the Indian brands brought in one feature that would set the tone for the industry in the coming years: dual-SIM smartphones. 
At the time, data and voice calls were much costlier in India, and people often swapped SIM cards to optimise their costs. Micromax and other Indian companies further leveraged their relationships with Chinese ODMs and started to offer low-cost smartphones in the country. These phones sold well as much of India's population eyed their first smartphone, but the devices still looked mostly identical, with similar hardware and software capabilities.
India remains a large market for smartphone manufacturers. About 350 million people out of the country's 1.2 billion popular currently own a smartphone. One strategy that was particularly unique to Chinese companies was using e-commerce. Though most Indians prefer purchasing smartphones through offline retail. In india nearly 80 percent phones are still sold offline - Chinese players in the initial years stuck to Flipkart, Amazon India, and Snapdeal. The move, Chinese companies said, would help them avoid logistics overheads. "What we did? We had all the offline retail presence in the world. But then we started to make online-only smartphones like phones under Yu brand.
But as Xiaomi, Oppo, Vivo started to gain ground in India, they began building the foundation for expanding their presence to brick and mortar stores. Xiaomi now sells phones through more than 600 retail stores in nearly a dozen cities in India. The Chinese phone maker is ensuring that it offers the same pricing and support in its offline stores as it does through Flipkart, Amazon India, or its own ecommerce site Mi.com, which has become one of the leading online shopping portals in the country.


////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    • Topic :To identify challenges and to re-imagine smartphone industry

Why indian smartphones are lagging behind other country’s smartphones
 
Few countries have benefited more than India from the explosion in connectivity provided by modern smartphones. It is no exaggeration to say the smartphone revolution has single-handedly connected a billion people across the sub-continent to each other and the world, erasing one of India’s most problematic infrastructure hurdles.

Along with India’s remarkable adoption of smartphones has come dramatic increases in handset competition, dramatically increased data rates coupled with dramatically reduced data transmission cost, and dramatically improved features and functions. As the market has evolved, Indian consumers have enjoyed enormous benefits. Smartphone prices have plummeted.

Traditionally, the reasons that it has been easier to manufacture Mobiles in China compared to India are –
    • Because of the useless policy of indian government. Administration plays a major role in the development of technology and industry. Mobile
 	phone consists of a pcb with semiconductor chips and microprocessor

    • China’s robust manufacturing industry has economies of scale and a full-fledged supply chain ecosystem, hence unit production cost per
 	phone in China is the lowest in the world

    • Components for mobile manufacturing are not available locally in India, hence imports adds to the overall cost of manufacturing

    • The cost of power and water is higher in India compared to China. As per a KPMG analysis in 2011, power cost in China was 20% to 30% lower, water was 30% to 35% cheaper, Chinese labor was 1.8 times more productive than Indians and labor cost was lower
	labor costs in China have risen by about 20%, thus eroding the advantage of 	manufacturing in China to some extent

    • We can't manufacture in India at huge level or from scratch because of No Microprocessor unit, No Displays or panel manufacturers in India, No plastic industry of standard quality. We do have industrial complexes but phone manufacturing needs best quality fibres and plastic which we don't produce. We can't manufacture that because we were never interested in that. Cost reduction is a huge advantage for Chinese manufacturers.
      
Over the past two years, Indian smartphone vendors have lost about 35 percent of the market to Chinese companies. Just two years ago, Micromax, Karbonn Mobiles, Lava and other local players had more than 54 percent market share, according to data from marketing research firm Counterpoint. The outcry from the Indian smartphone vendors was, in a way, a public admission that they could not fight back against the Chinese brands - with increased marketing, cutting down the retail price of their phones, and embracing the online strategy, all falling short. 

A decade ago, when Apple was about to announce the first iPhone, mobile phone stores in India were still filled with feature phones, and smartphones as we know them today were still a few years away. 
While Steve Jobs was attempting to revolutionise the smartphone industry, a revolutionary idea of sorts was also being explored at the headquarters of the Indian mobile industry of the time. For years, these companies had served as distribution partners for Nokia, Motorola, Sony Ericsson, LG, and other companies. The executives wondered. That was a monumental moment in India's mobile phone industry, Kolla said, as Micromax, Spice, Lava, and Jaina Group (which would later be rebranded to Karbonn Mobiles) made their foray into the OEM space. Several Indian brands partnered with Chinese Original Design Manufacturers (ODMs) to explore what is known in the industry as the white-labelling deal. One company designs and manufactures the phone, another puts its name on it. These Chinese ODMs brought two areas of expertise to the table: first, they could manufacture feature phones at record low prices, giving Indian vendors a major weapon to fight back offerings from Nokia, Motorola, and several other international giants that had in-house manufacturing capabilities.

Indian Smartphone’s companies like Micromax and other Indian vendors were able to bring new models to the market in a much shorter period of time. While other companies like Nokia, Samsung etc. typically took more than a year in conceptualising, manufacturing, and then bringing the phones to the market. And thus began the trend of "dumping" low-cost feature phone models in India, and quickly gaining some market share in the country. Micromax and others began to spend big money on marketing, targeting two things Indians love the most: cricket and Bollywood. 

However, it didn't take long before shareholders and consumers started to complain. All these feature phone models looked alike. Investors kept suggesting to companies that they need to make major investments in research and development, one way to differentiate from the competition. 

The problem however, was much deeper, a top level executive who has worked with one of these companies told Gadgets 360. Micromax and other local Indian companies didn't have the right set of people to lead the companies. They were traders, he said, adding that nobody had the experience with - or much expertise in – products. The problem was that none of their [Micromax's] founders were product people. They had expertise in marketing and distribution.

At the time, data and voice calls were much costlier in India, and people often swapped SIM cards to optimise their costs. Micromax and other Indian companies further leveraged their relationships with Chinese ODMs and started to offer low-cost smartphones in the country. These phones sold well as much of India's population eyed their first smartphone, but the devices still looked mostly identical, with similar hardware and software capabilities.

